In this video, we'll get an overview of unit testing.
Here's the question.
How do we test code?
If we're manually testing the code,
maybe we're doing something like this.
We write the code, and then we run the code,
and then we examine the results
by simply looking at the output in a terminal
and seeing if our output statements or log statements
match at what we were expecting.
And you're probably, "Well, what's wrong with this?"
Well, for small projects, it's probably okay,
but for much larger projects, it's a problem.
And the reason is because it requires
human interaction and analysis.
You actually have to examine the results,
look at the output and know exactly what's out there.
And in your mind, you know what's correct
and what's not correct.
But again, it requires human analysis.
Also, the test case is not reproducible.
When you examine the results as a human,
you can look at the output and know exactly what's there.
But if you wanted to automate this process,
then it's really hard to do,
because you need some way of identifying
what's the correct answer and what's not correct.
Also, there's no easy way to automate the test.
What if I wanted to run a battery of tests
for each code commit, or produce a report of test results?
Well, if we're manually testing the results,
then we can't easily do that.
And ideally, we want to automate this process.
We have the question, what is unit testing?
Well, it's basically when we test
an individual unit of code for correctness.
We provide some fixed inputs,
and then we expect a known output.
So let's say, for example, we're building a calculator,
and we have to create an add method.
And we pass in two values, x and y.
And when we add those two values together and get a result.
So we could create a test case,
and we could say add five comma two,
and then we expect the result of seven.
And if that's okay, then that given test will pass.
We could also create another test case,
where we could say, hey, let's see how this add method works
for negative numbers, and if it gives us the desired result.
And what happens if we give it one negative number,
one positive number, and the results in.
What if I add zero plus zero, what are the results?
All right, so we can kind of start building up a battery
or a collection of tests here for this given add method.
And also the nice thing about it is that once we create
these tests, then we can run these tests
in an automated fashion,
and also they're easily reproducible,
and anyone can reproduce it.
Now let's take a look at another example here
of this class called StringUtils.
And let's imagine that we have a junior developer,
or we have a summer intern who's joined our company,
and we tell them, "Hey, we'd like for you to implement
the code here for capitalize."
And again, I know it's very trivial,
but just think of it as some
super-duper complex method or whatever.
So we can create this test case here called capitalize.
And we pass in Luv2code.
And if this method works correctly or accordingly,
then we should get back LUV2CODE in all caps.
Now, that's one scenario.
Another test case is that we could say,
call capitalize and pass in a string in all caps,
what's the result?
Let's pass in a string and it's in all lowercase,
We could also say, what happens if we pass in a value
of null, and we handle the results accordingly.
So again, we can build up this battery
or this collection or this suite of tests,
and we can use this to verify that the interns work,
or our junior developer,
make sure their work actually works as desired.
Now in the old days, we would ask a developer,
"Hey, your code's finished. Does it work?"
And the developer would say, "Yes, boss, everything works."
And you have to kind of trust them (chuckles)
that they're code actually works.
But now once we have unit test in place,
then we have some objective, reproducible,
automated tests that we can run to say,
"Okay, yes, this code really does work."
And as a manager or as a senior,
I can run these tests even
after the junior developer's gone home for the day,
or they've moved on to another position.
I can still run these tests, and I can verify or validate
that yes, the code works, or hey, this code doesn't work,
because it fails certain test cases.
All right, so that's one of the ideas here
of using these unit tests.
Okay great, so this leads us
into the benefits of unit tests.
So, I've discussed this a bit,
and kind of here we are.
So when is it that we can have automated tests
and also better code design and fewer bugs
and higher reliability, and it increases
the confidence of code refactoring.
So in case I had to go and modify
some of the application code
or add some new features or refactor some code,
then the biggest thing is like, okay,
I touched the code, did I break anything?
Well, if all the tests pass,
then you have a high level of confidence
that yeah, you know, we're A-Okay.
So that's the nice think about having tests.
And also, unit tests are one of the basic requirements
for DevOps and Build Pipelines.
So, for example of setting up continuous integration
and continuous deployment,
a unit test is one of the key components here
of this DevOps culture.
So by learning unit testing here,
you're really setting yourself up to go
into some more advance,
more sure software development processes.
Now you also may have heard this term integration testing
and how does it relate to unit testing?
Well, integration testing is basically where we test
multiple components together as part of a test plan.
And really here, we want to determine
if the software units work together as expected,
and identify any negative side effects due
to the integration.
And when we're performing integration testing,
we can make use of mocks and stubs,
but we can also test using some live integrations,
like with a database or a file system.
And there's pros and cons in each one,
and we'll talk more a bit about that later.
And so we'll actually perform unit testing in this course
and also we'll perform integration testing in this course.
Okay, let's take a look at some unit testing frameworks.
One of the popular frameworks is JUnit,
and so JUnit supports creating test cases,
automation of test cases with pass/fail results,
the utilities available
for test setup, teardown, assertions,
and also there's Mockito for creating mocks and stubs,
and Mockito's mainly for minimizing dependencies
on external components.
And so during this course, we'll use a lot of JUnit,
and we'll also make use of Mockito,
so you'll get a lot of hands-on practice
using these frameworks.
And then finally, one thing that we'll use a lot
this week is that we'll make use
of this unit testing in our IDE.
So we'll make use of IntelliJ in this course.
And so IntelliJ has built in support for unit tests.
We can see results of tests in terms of pass/fail.
We can also get information as far as the number
of tests that were executed and some other data here, there.
We'll see a lot of hands-on practice here
of using unit testing in IntelliJ.
And also Eclipse has built in support for unit testing.
So here we can get a list of the test results
as far as pass/fail, the number of tests that were executed,
with the classic green bar as far as tests that pass,
and then red if tests fail.
Eclipse and IntelliJ, they have a very similar feature set
here in regards to unit testing.